#Format: Title | Short Description | Long Description 

Ongoing Projects
The anaphoric potential of demonstrative descriptions | In this cross-linguistic collaborative project, Ankana Saha, Yağmur Sağ, Jian Cui, and Kathryn Davidson investigate the contrast in acceptability of definite expressions and demonstratives in anaphoric contexts in English, Bangla, Turkish, and Mandarin to understand the core building blocks of definiteness in Language. | While demonstratives differ from definite descriptions in allowing the deictic use, they are also known to allow anaphoric readings similar to definite descriptions. Nevertheless, demonstratives do not always seem to be a natural option in anaphoric contexts. This cross-linguistic collaborative project experimentally studies the contrast in acceptability of definite expressions and demonstratives in anaphoric contexts in English, Bangla, Turkish, and Mandarin. The research questions that they are pursuing include investigating the different factors that influence the distinction in acceptability, testing whether the same patterns are borne out in both languages with articles as well as article-less languages, and how the findings can inform our understanding of the core building blocks of definiteness in Language. 
Adjective-noun composition in humans and large language models | In this project, Hayley Ross works on compositionality through the lens of experimental semantics, specifically focusing on adjective-noun composition with so-called privative adjectives like fake or counterfeit in human languages and language models. |Hayley works on compositionality through the lens of experimental semantics, specifically focusing on adjective-noun composition with so-called privative adjectives like fake or counterfeit. How do humans conclude that a fake door isn't a door, but a counterfeit paintingis still a painting? Can large language models, which are just trained on reading vast quantities of text, arrive at the same conclusions? In particular, Hayley is studying how both humans and language models extend this to cases they haven't seen before, such as counterfeit skirt, and whether their generalisations are best formalised by existing theories (Martin, 2022; del Pinal, 2018) or rather a probabilistic approach. Hayley's previous projects within the lab also include experimental work on crossover (what pronouns can refer to in sentences like The teacher knew whose project they found frustrating.)
Pragmatic inferences triggered by the iconic use of space in sign and in gesture | Anastasia Tsilia works on an experimental project with Kathryn Davidson, focusing on whether co-speech gestures can license complement anaphora with positive quantifiers like ‘most’. She investigates the interaction of negation with iconicity, more specifically, the iconic inferences of existence triggered by iconic loci in American Sign Language (ASL) as well as by iconic co-speech gestures in English. |Anastasia is interested in the semantics and pragmatics of co-speech gestures. She previously worked on an experimental project with Kathryn Davidson, focusing on whether co-speech gestures can license complement anaphora (e.g., Few students came. They (=the ones who did not come) stayed home) with positive quantifiers like ‘most’. She is currently investigating the interaction of negation with iconicity, as well as the pragmatic inferences triggered by the iconic use of space both in signed and in spoken language. More specifically, she is working on the iconic inferences of existence triggered by iconic loci in ASL as well as by iconic co-speech gestures in English. She is also thinking about the environments in which these inferences are (in)compatible with negation and negative quantifiers.
Investigating embedding and the role of non-manuals in ASL imperatives | In this project, Marianthi Koraka investigates the possible manual and non-manual elements that are used for the expression of imperative speech acts in American Sign Language (ASL). | In this project, Marianthi Koraka is interested in the possible manual and non-manual elements that are used for the expression of four imperative speech acts, namely command, plea, permission and advice as well as in whether ASL imperatives can be truly embedded under particular verbs, such as SAY, COMMAND, BEG and whether there is any particular evidence in favor of true embedding (see for instance the diagnostics suggested by Davidson and Caponigro (2016), like topicalization, negation and binding, for polar interrogatives in ASL). Another question that they will try to answer concerns the specific role of non-manual elements in imperatives (that are often considered to act the same way as intonation in spoken languages), namely whether they are part of the imperative convention or whether they act more independently.
Interpreting noun phrases in belief reports – the de re/de dicto competition | Yuhan Zhang investigates the empirical landscape of de re/de dicto acceptability by using an experimantal behavioral methods. They aim to solidify the empirical foundation for formal semantic theory development and endorse the practice of collecting reliable empirical judgment data for nuanced semantic phenomena. |The de re/de dicto ambiguity centers on the referential and/or attributive properties of noun phrases in the scope of intentional operators such as attitude or belief reports. For the belief report Julie believes Elizabeth’s poem will win the competition, a de re reading of the embedded referential noun phrase Elizabeth’s poem entails that the referential association between this noun phrase and the target poem is true from the perspective of the speaker; but the belief holder (e.g. Julie) does not register such association in her mind. In contrast, a de dictoreading entails that the belief holder Julie does register this association and knows the poem was written by Elizabeth. While both the de re and de dicto readings of definite noun phrases like Elizabeth’s poem are generally available given supporting contexts, we find that the acceptability of de re reading is subject to contextual and pragmatic manipulations. Yuhan's research is the first that utilizes experimental behavioral methods to systematically lay out the empirical landscape of de re/de dicto acceptability. Their findings aim to solidify the empirical foundation for formal semantic theory development and endorse the practice of collecting reliable empirical judgment data for nuanced semantic phenomena.